The heart is a hollow muscle
about the size of your fist.
It is located under your rib cage
between your lungs,
to the left of your breast bone or sternum.
The heart functions as a two-sided pump,
with a right side and a left side.
Each side has two chambers,
an upper collecting chamber called the atrium
and a lower pumping chamber called the ventricle.
The ventricles are the main force
for the circulation of blood throughout your body.
The right atrium receives blood from the body
that is low in oxygen
and high in carbon dioxide waste.
Blood then passes from the right atrium
down into the right ventricle,
which pumps it into the lungs where
it releases carbon dioxide
and picks up a fresh oxygen supply.
The left atrium receives
blood from the lungs with its fresh oxygen supply.
Blood with oxygen then passes from the left atrium
down into the left ventricle,
which pumps it to all the organs of the body.
The normal heart beats about
60 to 100 times a minute.
With each beat, blood moves in, through,
and out of the heart
to the rest of your body.